Cameron Wonchoba
wonch002
5239321

Problem1:
  - I attached a file that shows my solution to part 1.

Problem2:

a) Attached as separate pictures are my compressed images. Each picture is labeled
   with which k it used. (k being the number of clusters/distributions).

b) Attached as separate pictures are my complete log-likelihood graphs.
   Note: Both the E-Step and M-Step are both included.

c) KMeans and EM behave differently because KMeans focuses on minimizing the
   reconstruction error while EM focuses on maximizing the expected likelihood
   of its parameters occurring with each set of data. This results in differences
   in the goal of the algorithms, and thus allow the algorithm to choose different
   values for their means to satisfy their condition.

   Note: When implementing EMG on Goldy without regularization, we get a singular
         matrix which causes a failure. I catch this error and print the following
         error message:

              - "Error: Singular Matrix detected. Trying again with regularization term."

         I then retry the EMG algorithm with flag set to True (as question "e"
         suggests). More on the results in section "e".

d) I derived the regularization in the attached file labeled "problem 4". I then
   added an arbitrary (0.01) regularization term to the covariance calculation in
   the function called m_step(). This regularization prevents a singular Matrix
   from occurring. Note: A singular matrix is not good because the multivariate
   gaussian distribution relies on the inverse of the covariance matrix. When a
   matrix is singular, the inverse does not exist (because the determinant is 0).

e) The new model was implemented. My Goldy picture is slightly odd because the
   covariance matrix is being tinkered with (regularization). Consequently, the
   means must offset this tinkering to ensure the parameters are optimized for a
   given distribution. This means that the colors are slightly offset from their
   true values.
